---
layout: post
title: Trading Glossary
date: '2025-07-11T02:08:09'
categories:
- trading
original_url: https://insightginie.com/trading-glossary/
featured_image: /media/images/2507111007.avif
---

<h2 class="wp-block-heading">Price Action Trading</h2>

<figure class="wp-block-table"><table><tbody><tr><td>Bearish</td><td>An expectation that price is going to decrease.</td></tr><tr><td>Breakdown</td><td>When the price falls below a support level.</td></tr><tr><td>Breakout</td><td>When the price moves outside a defined support or resistance level with increased volume.</td></tr><tr><td>Bullish</td><td>An expectation that price is going to increase.</td></tr><tr><td>Candlestick Chart</td><td>A type of financial chart used to describe price movements of a security, derivative, or currency.</td></tr><tr><td>Chart Patterns</td><td>Patterns formed by the price movements on a chart, such as triangles, channels, and head and shoulders.</td></tr><tr><td>Consolidation</td><td>A period where price moves within a confined range, indicating that the market is undecided.</td></tr><tr><td>Doji</td><td>A candlestick pattern that signals indecision in the market.</td></tr><tr><td>Engulfing Pattern</td><td>A candlestick pattern that can signal a reversal in the market.</td></tr><tr><td>Fibonacci Retracement</td><td>A tool used to identify potential reversal levels based on the Fibonacci sequence.</td></tr><tr><td>Hammer</td><td>A candlestick pattern that indicates a potential reversal in the downtrend.</td></tr><tr><td>Momentum</td><td>The rate of acceleration of a security&#8217;s price or volume.</td></tr><tr><td>Pin Bar</td><td>A type of candlestick pattern that indicates a rejection of a certain price level.</td></tr><tr><td>Price Action</td><td>The movement of a security&#8217;s price plotted over time.</td></tr><tr><td>Pullback</td><td>A temporary reversal of the prevailing trend in price action.</td></tr><tr><td>Rally</td><td>A period in which price consistently moves upwards.</td></tr><tr><td>Range</td><td>The difference between the high and low prices during a specific time period.</td></tr><tr><td>Resistance Level</td><td>A price level where a trend can stall or reverse due to a concentration of selling interest.</td></tr><tr><td>Reversal</td><td>A change in the direction of the price movement of a security.</td></tr><tr><td>Shooting Star</td><td>A type of candlestick pattern that suggests a bearish reversal.</td></tr><tr><td>Support Level</td><td>A price level where a downtrend can be expected to pause due to a concentration of demand.</td></tr><tr><td>Swing High</td><td>A peak formed when the high of a price is greater than a given number of highs positioned around it.</td></tr><tr><td>Swing Low</td><td>A trough formed when the low of a price is lower than a given number of lows positioned around it.</td></tr><tr><td>Trend Lines</td><td>Straight lines drawn on a chart to highlight the prevailing market direction.</td></tr><tr><td>Volume</td><td>The number of shares or contracts traded in a security or market during a given period.</td></tr></tbody></table></figure>

<h2 class="wp-block-heading">Volume Trading</h2>

<figure class="wp-block-table"><table><tbody><tr><td>ADTV (Average Daily Trading Volume)</td><td>The average number of shares traded in a day in a specific security or market.</td></tr><tr><td>AVOL (Average Volume)</td><td>The average volume of shares traded over a specific period.</td></tr><tr><td>Block Trade</td><td>A large volume of securities transaction, typically involving 10,000 shares of stock or more.</td></tr><tr><td>CV (Cumulative Volume)</td><td>The total volume accumulated over a period.</td></tr><tr><td>Dark Pool Volume</td><td>Trading volume that occurs in private exchanges or forums, outside of public stock exchanges.</td></tr><tr><td>HV (High Volume)</td><td>Refers to a higher-than-average number of shares or contracts traded.</td></tr><tr><td>Liquidity</td><td>The degree to which an asset or security can be quickly bought or sold in the market without affecting its price.</td></tr><tr><td>LV (Low Volume)</td><td>Refers to a lower-than-average number of shares or contracts traded.</td></tr><tr><td>Market Depth</td><td>The market&#8217;s ability to sustain relatively large market orders without impacting the price of the security.</td></tr><tr><td>MVOL (Market Volume)</td><td>The volume of all stocks or securities traded in a particular market.</td></tr><tr><td>OBV (On-Balance Volume)</td><td>A technical trading momentum indicator that uses volume flow to predict changes in stock price.</td></tr><tr><td>RVOL (Relative Volume)</td><td>A measure of current volume compared to the average volume for the same time of day.</td></tr><tr><td>Tick Volume</td><td>A measure of trading activity that indicates the number of price changes in a security.</td></tr><tr><td>TV (Total Volume)</td><td>The total volume of shares or contracts traded in a specific market or security.</td></tr><tr><td>VAP (Volume at Price)</td><td>A histogram on a chart that shows the amount of volume for each individual price level.</td></tr><tr><td>VIX (Volatility Index)</td><td>A real-time market index representing the market&#8217;s expectations for volatility over the coming 30 days.</td></tr><tr><td>Volume</td><td>The number of shares or contracts traded in a security or market during a given period.</td></tr><tr><td>Volume Oscillator</td><td>An indicator that measures the difference between two volume moving averages.</td></tr><tr><td>Volume Profile</td><td>A charting tool that displays trading activity over a specified time period at certain price levels.</td></tr><tr><td>VPOC (Volume Point of Control)</td><td>The price level for the time period with the highest traded volume.</td></tr><tr><td>VPT (Volume Price Trend)</td><td>An indicator that shows the relationship between the volume and price movement of a security.</td></tr><tr><td>VROC (Volume Rate of Change)</td><td>An indicator that measures the rate of change in volume.</td></tr><tr><td>VSA (Volume Spread Analysis)</td><td>A methodology based on the analysis of volume and price.</td></tr><tr><td>VWAP (Volume Weighted Average Price)</td><td>A trading benchmark that provides the average price a security has traded at throughout the day, based on both volume and price.</td></tr><tr><td>VWMA (Volume Weighted Moving Average)</td><td>A moving average that gives more weight to price bars with higher volume.</td></tr></tbody></table></figure>

<h2 class="wp-block-heading">Trading</h2>

<figure class="wp-block-table"><table><tbody><tr><td>Ask</td><td>The lowest price a seller is willing to accept for a security.</td></tr><tr><td>Bear Market</td><td>A market condition where prices are falling or are expected to fall.</td></tr><tr><td>Bid</td><td>The highest price a buyer is willing to pay for a security.</td></tr><tr><td>Bull Market</td><td>A market condition where prices are rising or are expected to rise.</td></tr><tr><td>Candlestick Chart</td><td>A type of financial chart used to describe price movements of a security, derivative, or currency.</td></tr><tr><td>Day Trading</td><td>The practice of buying and selling financial instruments within the same trading day.</td></tr><tr><td>Diversification</td><td>A risk management strategy that mixes a wide variety of investments within a portfolio.</td></tr><tr><td>ETF (Exchange-Traded Fund)</td><td>A type of security that tracks an index, commodity, or basket of assets but trades like a stock on an exchange.</td></tr><tr><td>Futures</td><td>Financial contracts obligating the buyer to purchase an asset or the seller to sell an asset at a predetermined future date and price.</td></tr><tr><td>HFT (High-Frequency Trading)</td><td>A type of trading that uses powerful computers to transact a large number of orders at very fast speeds.</td></tr><tr><td>IPO (Initial Public Offering)</td><td>The first time that the stock of a private company is offered to the public.</td></tr><tr><td>Leverage</td><td>The use of borrowed money to increase potential return of an investment.</td></tr><tr><td>Margin</td><td>Borrowing money from a broker to purchase stock, using the investment as collateral.</td></tr><tr><td>NASDAQ</td><td>An American stock exchange and the second-largest exchange in the world by market capitalization.</td></tr><tr><td>NYSE (New York Stock Exchange)</td><td>The largest stock exchange in the world by market capitalization.</td></tr><tr><td>Options</td><td>Contracts that give the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy (or sell) a security at a predetermined price within a specific time period.</td></tr><tr><td>P/E Ratio (Price-to-Earnings Ratio)</td><td>A valuation ratio of a company&#8217;s current share price compared to its per-share earnings.</td></tr><tr><td>Rally</td><td>A rapid increase in the general price level of the market or of the price of a stock.</td></tr><tr><td>SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission)</td><td>A U.S. government agency that oversees securities transactions, activities of financial professionals and mutual fund trading to prevent fraud and intentional deception.</td></tr><tr><td>Short Selling</td><td>The sale of a security that is not owned by the seller, or that the seller has borrowed.</td></tr><tr><td>Stop-Loss Order</td><td>An order placed with a broker to buy or sell once the stock reaches a certain price.</td></tr><tr><td>TA (Technical Analysis)</td><td>A trading discipline employed to evaluate investments and identify trading opportunities by analyzing statistical trends gathered from trading activity.</td></tr><tr><td>Volatility</td><td>The degree of variation of a trading price series over time, usually measured by the standard deviation of logarithmic returns.</td></tr><tr><td>Yield</td><td>The income return on an investment, such as the interest or dividends received from holding a particular security.</td></tr></tbody></table></figure>

<h2 class="wp-block-heading">Crypto</h2>

<figure class="wp-block-table"><table><tbody><tr><td>Altcoin</td><td>Any cryptocurrency other than Bitcoin.</td></tr><tr><td>ATH (All-Time High)</td><td>The highest price ever reached by a cryptocurrency.</td></tr><tr><td>ATL (All-Time Low)</td><td>The lowest price ever reached by a cryptocurrency.</td></tr><tr><td>Bear Market</td><td>A market where prices are declining.</td></tr><tr><td>Blockchain</td><td>A digital ledger recording all the transactions made in a particular cryptocurrency sequentially.</td></tr><tr><td>BTC</td><td>Bitcoin, the first and most well-known cryptocurrency.</td></tr><tr><td>Bull Market</td><td>A market where prices are rising.</td></tr><tr><td>Cold Wallet/Cold Storage</td><td>A secure offline wallet for storing cryptocurrency.</td></tr><tr><td>DAO (Decentralized Autonomous Organization)</td><td>An organization represented by rules encoded as a computer program, transparent and member-controlled without central authority.</td></tr><tr><td>DApp (Decentralized Application)</td><td>An application that runs on a decentralized network, avoiding a single point of failure.</td></tr><tr><td>DEX (Decentralized Exchange)</td><td>A cryptocurrency exchange which operates without a central authority.</td></tr><tr><td>DeFi (Decentralized Finance)</td><td>Financial services built on blockchain technology including lending, borrowing, and trading.</td></tr><tr><td>DYOR (Do Your Own Research)</td><td>Advice to investors to research and analyze a coin or investment themselves before investing.</td></tr><tr><td>ERC-20</td><td>A standard for creating and issuing smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain.</td></tr><tr><td>FA (Fundamental Analysis)</td><td>A method of measuring a security&#8217;s intrinsic value by examining economic and financial factors.</td></tr><tr><td>FOMO (Fear Of Missing Out)</td><td>Fear of missing profit opportunities in crypto, often triggered by social media hype.</td></tr><tr><td>FUD (Fear, Uncertainty, and Doubt)</td><td>Strategy to influence perception via negative, dubious, or false information.</td></tr><tr><td>Gas</td><td>A fee paid to execute transactions or contracts on the Ethereum blockchain.</td></tr><tr><td>HODL</td><td>A buy-and-hold strategy originally based on a misspelling of &#8220;hold&#8221;.</td></tr><tr><td>ICO (Initial Coin Offering)</td><td>A fundraising method where crypto tokens are sold in exchange for Bitcoin or Ether.</td></tr><tr><td>Mining</td><td>Using computing power to process transactions, secure the network, and synchronize participants.</td></tr><tr><td>Moon/Mooning</td><td>Describes a cryptocurrency experiencing a strong upward trend.</td></tr><tr><td>NFT (Non-Fungible Token)</td><td>A unique digital asset recorded on a blockchain that certifies authenticity and ownership.</td></tr><tr><td>Private Key</td><td>A secure code giving a user access to their cryptocurrency.</td></tr><tr><td>Public Key</td><td>An alphanumeric code used to receive cryptocurrency.</td></tr><tr><td>ROI (Return on Investment)</td><td>Performance metric evaluating the efficiency of an investment.</td></tr><tr><td>Satoshi</td><td>The smallest unit of Bitcoin, named after its creator, Satoshi Nakamoto.</td></tr><tr><td>Shill</td><td>Enthusiastic promotion of a cryptocurrency for personal gain.</td></tr><tr><td>Smart Contract</td><td>Self-executing contracts with terms written directly into code.</td></tr><tr><td>Stablecoin</td><td>A cryptocurrency designed to maintain a stable value.</td></tr><tr><td>TA (Technical Analysis)</td><td>A trading discipline using statistical trends from trading activity to identify opportunities.</td></tr><tr><td>TVL (Total Value Locked)</td><td>Total value of assets staked in a DeFi protocol.</td></tr><tr><td>Wallet</td><td>A method of storing cryptocurrencies either digitally or offline.</td></tr><tr><td>Whale</td><td>An individual or entity holding a large amount of cryptocurrency, capable of influencing market prices.</td></tr></tbody></table></figure>

<h2 class="wp-block-heading">Smart Money Concepts</h2>

<figure class="wp-block-table"><table><tbody><tr><td>ADR (Average Daily Range)</td><td>The average range that a currency pair moves in a day, used in ICT for setting targets and stop losses.</td></tr><tr><td>Asian Range</td><td>The price range formed during the Asian trading session, often monitored for its influence on later sessions.</td></tr><tr><td>BOS (Break of Structure)</td><td>Structure break that indicates continuation, used for better trade entries.</td></tr><tr><td>Breaker</td><td>A market structure concept where a support or resistance level is broken and then retested.</td></tr><tr><td>CHoCH (Change of Character)</td><td>A shift in market structure, indicating potential reversal or continuation.</td></tr><tr><td>COT (Commitment of Traders)</td><td>A report detailing traders&#8217; positions in futures markets, useful for gauging sentiment.</td></tr><tr><td>Equilibrium</td><td>A price level or zone where supply and demand are in balance.</td></tr><tr><td>Fibonacci Retracement</td><td>A technical analysis tool that marks areas of support or resistance using key Fibonacci levels.</td></tr><tr><td>FVG (Fair Value Gap)</td><td>A price area with no trading activity, signaling a potential target for future trades.</td></tr><tr><td>HTF (Higher Time Frame)</td><td>Longer time frame charts used for broader market trend analysis.</td></tr><tr><td>ICT (Inner Circle Trader)</td><td>A trading methodology developed by Michael J. Huddleston.</td></tr><tr><td>Institutional Order Flow</td><td>Large-scale buying and selling by institutions, which can influence price movements.</td></tr><tr><td>Kill Zone</td><td>Specific time periods during the trading day when ICT strategies are considered most effective.</td></tr><tr><td>Liquidity Void</td><td>An area on the chart with low liquidity, often leading to swift price movements.</td></tr><tr><td>LTF (Lower Time Frame)</td><td>Shorter time frame charts for detailed market analysis.</td></tr><tr><td>Mitigation Block</td><td>A price level where previously unfulfilled orders are likely to be filled.</td></tr><tr><td>MS (Market Structure)</td><td>The highs and lows in a market that form patterns used to analyze direction.</td></tr><tr><td>MSB (Market Structure Break)</td><td>Same as CHoCH – a change in market structure indicating trend shift.</td></tr><tr><td>MSS (Market Structure Shift)</td><td>Same as above – a transition in market structure dynamics.</td></tr><tr><td>OTE (Optimal Trade Entry)</td><td>A high-probability entry zone defined by ICT methodology.</td></tr><tr><td>OB (Order Block)</td><td>A block of price where institutional orders are believed to reside.</td></tr><tr><td>POI (Point of Interest)</td><td>Key price levels or zones with expected trading significance.</td></tr><tr><td>Price Delivery</td><td>The movement of price toward a forecasted level or zone.</td></tr><tr><td>Psychological Levels</td><td>Rounded price numbers often acting as support or resistance due to trader behavior.</td></tr><tr><td>SMT (Smart Money Theory)</td><td>Analyzing divergence between related assets to forecast price action.</td></tr><tr><td>Stop Hunt</td><td>A market maneuver aimed at triggering stop-losses before resuming original direction.</td></tr><tr><td>Swing High/Low</td><td>The peak or trough of a price movement.</td></tr><tr><td>Trader’s Trinity</td><td>An ICT concept using three key Fibonacci retracement levels in analysis.</td></tr><tr><td>Value Area</td><td>The price range where the bulk of trading volume has occurred.</td></tr></tbody></table></figure>
